[Congressional Bills 115th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4884 Introduced in House (IH)]
<DOC>
115th CONGRESS
2d Session
H. R. 4884
To deter foreign interference in United States elections, and for other
purposes.
_______________________________________________________________________
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
January 25, 2018
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen (for herself and Mr. Schneider) introduced the
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
and in addition to the Committees on Intelligence (Permanent Select),
the Judiciary, and Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such
provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned
_______________________________________________________________________
A BILL
To deter foreign interference in United States elections, and for other
purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Defending
Elections from Threats by Establishing Redlines Act of 2018''.
(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as
follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
TITLE I--DETERMINATION OF FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS
Sec. 101. Determination of foreign interference in United States
elections.
TITLE II--DETERRING INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES ELECTIONS BY THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Sec. 201. Imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 202. Sense of Congress on coordination with European Union.
TITLE III--DETERRING INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES ELECTIONS BY OTHER
FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
Sec. 301. Briefing on interference in United States elections.
Sec. 302. Sense of Congress on deterrence strategies for interference
in United States elections by China, Iran,
North Korea, and other foreign governments
of concern.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through
account.--The terms ``account'', ``correspondent account'', and
``payable-through account'' have the meanings given those terms
in section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term
``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the
Committee on Finance, the Select Committee on
Intelligence, and the Committee on Rules and
Administration of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Financial Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways and
Means, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence,
and the Committee on House Administration of the House
of Representatives.
(3) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership.--
The term ``appropriate congressional committees and
leadership'' means--
(A) the appropriate congressional committees;
(B) the majority leader and minority leader of the
Senate; and
(C) the Speaker, the majority leader, and the
minority leader of the House of Representatives.
(4) Election and campaign infrastructure.--The term
``election and campaign infrastructure'' means information and
communications technology and systems used by or on behalf of--
(A) the Federal Government or a State or local
government in managing the election process, including
voter registration databases, voting machines, voting
tabulation equipment, equipment for the secure
transmission of election results, and other systems; or
(B) a principal campaign committee or national
committee (as those terms are defined in section 301 of
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101)) with respect to strategy or tactics affecting
the conduct of a political campaign, including
electronic communications, and the information stored
on, processed by, or transiting such technology and
systems.
(5) Interference in united states elections.--The term
``interference'', with respect to a United States election,
means any of the following actions of the government of a
foreign country, or any person acting as an agent of or on
behalf of such a government, undertaken with the intent to
influence the election:
(A) Obtaining unauthorized access to election and
campaign infrastructure or related systems or data and
releasing such data or modifying such infrastructure,
systems, or data.
(B) Blocking or degrading otherwise legitimate and
authorized access to election and campaign
infrastructure or related systems or data.
(C) Contributions or expenditures for advertising,
including on the internet.
(D) Using social or traditional media to spread
significant amounts of false information to individuals
in the United States.
(6) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to
conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has
actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the
circumstance, or the result.
(7) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or
entity.
(8) Presidential election cycle.--The term ``presidential
election cycle'' means the period beginning on the day after
the date of the most recent election for the office of
President of the United States and ending on the date of the
next election for that office.
(9) United states election.--The term ``United States
election'' means any United States Federal election.
(10) United states person.--The term ``United States
person'' means--
(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully
admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of the
United States or of any jurisdiction within the United
States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.
TITLE I--DETERMINATION OF FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS
SEC. 101. DETERMINATION OF FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after a United States
election, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Director of
the National Security Agency, and the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, shall--
(1) determine whether or not the government of a foreign
country, or any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of
that government, knowingly engaged in interference in the
election; and
(2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees and
leadership a report on that determination, including an
identification of the government or person that interfered in
the election if the Director determines that interference did
occur.
(b) Additional Reporting.--If the Director of National Intelligence
determines and reports under subsection (a) that neither the government
of a foreign country nor any person acting as an agent of or on behalf
of that government knowingly engaged in interference in a United States
election, and the Director subsequently determines that that
government, or such a person, did engage in such interference, the
Director shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and
leadership a report on the subsequent determination not later than 30
days after making that determination.
(c) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) or (b)
shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified
annex.
TITLE II--DETERRING INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES ELECTIONS BY THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SEC. 201. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.
(a) In General.--If the Director of National Intelligence
determines under section 101 that the Government of the Russian
Federation, or any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of that
government, knowingly engaged in interference in a United States
election, the President shall, not later than 10 days after such
determination is made, impose the following sanctions:
(1) Blocking the assets of certain state-owned russian
financial institutions and restricting accounts.--
(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury
shall impose one or more of the following sanctions on
three or more entities specified in subparagraph (B):
(i) Pursuant to the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.),
blocking and prohibiting all transactions in
all property and interests in property of the
entity if such property and interests in
property are in the United States, come within
the United States, or are or come within the
possession or control of a United States
person.
(ii) Prohibiting, or imposing strict
conditions on, the opening or maintaining in
the United States of a correspondent account or
payable-through account by the entity.
(B) Entities specified.--The entities specified in
this subparagraph are the following:
(i) Sberbank.
(ii) VTB Bank.
(iii) Gazprombank.
(iv) Vnesheconombank.
(v) Bank of Moscow.
(vi) Rosselkhozbank.
(2) Blocking the assets of certain russian energy
companies.--
(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury
shall, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), block and prohibit
all transactions in all property and interests in
property of two or more of the entities specified in
subparagraph (B) if such property and interests in
property are in the United States, come within the
United States, or are or come within the possession or
control of a United States person.
(B) Entities specified.--The entities specified in
this subparagraph are the following:
(i) Gazprom.
(ii) Rosneft.
(iii) Lukoil.
(3) Blocking the assets of entities in russian defense and
intelligence sectors.--
(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury
shall, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), block and prohibit
all transactions in all property and interests in
property of any entity described in subparagraph (B) if
such property and interests in property are in the
United States, come within the United States, or are or
come within the possession or control of a United
States person.
(B) Entities described.--An entity described in
this subparagraph is--
(i) an entity that the President has
determined under section 231 of the Countering
Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of
2017 (22 U.S.C. 9525) engages in a significant
transaction with a person that is part of, or
operates for or on behalf of, the defense or
intelligence sectors of the Government of the
Russian Federation; or
(ii) an entity in which an entity described
in clause (i) has an ownership interest of 50
percent or more.
(4) Blocking the assets of certain russian state-owned
entities.--
(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury
shall, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), block and prohibit
all transactions in all property and interests in
property of any entity described in subparagraph (B) in
which the Government of the Russian Federation has an
ownership interest of 25 percent or more if such
property and interests in property are in the United
States, come within the United States, or are or come
within the possession or control of a United States
person.
(B) Entities described.--The entities described in
this subparagraph are the following:
(i) Any entity in the railway or metals and
mining sector of the economy of the Russian
Federation.
(ii) Any aerospace company or air carrier,
including any subsidiary of such a company or
carrier.
(5) Blocking the assets of entities acquired by russian
state-owned entities.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall,
pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in
all property and interests in property of any entity in which
an entity owned 50 percent or more in the aggregate by the
Government of the Russian Federation acquires, on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act, an ownership interest of 20
percent or more if such property and interests in property are
in the United States, come within the United States, or are or
come within the possession or control of a United States
person.
(6) Prohibition on transactions involving certain russian
debt.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall, pursuant to such
regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, prohibit all
transactions within the United States or by a United States
person, in--
(A) sovereign debt of the Government of the Russian
Federation issued on or after the date of the enactment
of this Act, including governmental bonds; and
(B) debt of any entity owned or controlled by the
Russian Federation issued on or after such date of
enactment, including bonds.
(7) Blocking the assets of senior political figures and
oligarchs and exclusion from the united states.--The President
shall impose with respect to any senior foreign political
figure or oligarch in the Russian Federation described in
subsection (a)(1) of section 241 of the Countering Russian
Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 (title II of Public
Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 922) and identified in the report
required by that section the following sanctions:
(A) Pursuant to the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the
President shall block and prohibit all transactions in
all property and interests in property of the
individual if such property and interests in property
are in the United States, come within the United
States, or are or come within the possession or control
of a United States person.
(B) The President shall deny a visa to, and exclude
from the United States, the individual, and revoke in
accordance with section 221(i) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)) any visa or other
documentation of the individual.
(b) Report to Congress.--
(1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
President shall submit to the committees specified in paragraph
(2) a report--
(A) identifying the 6 largest financial
institutions owned or controlled by the Government of
the Russian Federation, determined by estimated net
assets;
(B) identifying the 3 largest energy companies in
the Russian Federation, in terms of estimated net
assets; and
(C) recommending entities that should be subject to
sanctions pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a), as appropriate.
(2) Committees specified.--The committees specified in this
paragraph are--
(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Financial Services and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives.
(c) Exceptions.--
(1) Exception for importation of goods.--The requirement to
impose sanctions under subsection (a) shall not include the
authority to impose sanctions with respect to the importation
of goods (as defined in section 16 of the Export Administration
Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4618) (as continued in effect pursuant
to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.))).
(2) Compliance with united nations headquarters
agreement.--Subsection (a)(7)(B) shall not apply with respect
to the admission of an alien to the United States if such
admission is necessary to comply with United States obligations
under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United
States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United
Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into
force November 21, 1947, under the Convention on Consular
Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into
force March 19, 1967, or under other international agreements.
(d) Implementation; Penalties.--
(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all
authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and
1704) to carry out this section.
(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to
violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this
section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry
out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same
extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in
subsection (a) of that section.
(e) Suspension.--The President may suspend sanctions imposed under
subsection (a) on or after the date on which the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, the Director of the National Security Agency, and the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, submits to the appropriate
congressional committees and leadership a certification that the
Government of the Russian Federation has not engaged in interference in
United States elections for at least 2 presidential election cycles.
(f) Termination.--The President may terminate sanctions imposed
under subsection (a) on or after the date on which the Director of
National Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the Director of the National Security Agency,
and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, submits to the
appropriate congressional committees and leadership a certification
that--
(1) the Government of the Russian Federation has not
engaged in interference in United States elections for at least
2 presidential election cycles; and
(2) the President has received reliable assurances that the
Government of the Russian Federation will not engage in such
interference in the future.
SEC. 202. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON COORDINATION WITH EUROPEAN UNION.
It is the sense of Congress that the United States should--
(1) work in concert with the European Union and member
countries of the European Union to deter interference by the
Government of the Russian Federation in elections; and
(2) coordinate with the European Union and member countries
of the European Union to enact legislation similar to this Act.
TITLE III--DETERRING INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES ELECTIONS BY OTHER
FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
SEC. 301. BRIEFING ON INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES ELECTIONS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 90 days thereafter, the President, or a designee of the
President, shall brief the appropriate congressional committees and
leadership on any government of a foreign country, or person acting as
an agent of or on behalf of that government, that is determined by the
President as having engaged in or being likely to engage in
interference in a United States election.
SEC. 302. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DETERRENCE STRATEGIES FOR INTERFERENCE
IN UNITED STATES ELECTIONS BY CHINA, IRAN, NORTH KOREA,
AND OTHER FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS OF CONCERN.
It is the sense of Congress that--
(1) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the President should submit to the appropriate
congressional committees and leadership a report that includes
a strategy of the President to deter interference in a United
States election by the Government of the People's Republic of
China, the Government of Iran, the Government of the Democratic
People's Republic of Korea, and any other foreign government
determined by the President as having engaged in or being
likely to engage in interference in a United States election,
including any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of such
a government; and
(2) the report described in paragraph (1) should include--
(A) proposed sanctions if that government engages
in such interference and any authorities the President
may require from Congress to impose such sanctions;
(B) other actions undertaken by Federal agencies or
in cooperation with other countries to deter such
interference; and
(C) a plan for communicating such deterrence
actions to those governments.
<all>